## Internet and Society 
<h1>Week 1 Reflection</h1>

 Before the telegraph one way people would communicate was to write on a piece of paper and mail it off. The telegraph changed society by giving people the ability to communicate long distances. The telegraph became really big because it gave people the chance to send and receive messages at an unbelievable speed and volume.The later electric telegraph worked by taking electrical signals over wires between spots. The electrical signals made by Morse were named after Morse as called  Morse code today. The code used a set up of dashes and dots to show each letter of the alphabet that made it simple to understand  longer messages through the lines. Telegraph started a chain of unbelievable creation coming from telegraph to a block phone. This phone was able to call people that were not close to you at all. This was one of the best things that happen to the world. It was a mobile phone, and it had the numbers one through nine on it. There was also a home phone that had all the numbers on it too. The home phone was not a mobile. The phone stayed on the wall plugged in a special spot in the wall for it. Then there was the flip phone that you could call and send a text. This phone has changed the world in a big way. It was a new evolution for the world. Then there was a touch screen phone. The was a big step for mankind. You could play games, text and call.The touch screen phone has a digital keyboard. The touch screen phone is still around today. You are able to use the internet on the phone. The internet was slow, although the internet is fast now a days. Then the upgrades came into play the phones  were able to text call and also video call to see the person. This was an unbelievable thing that happened to the world. You could search for something on the internet and know exactly what you wanted to know in a matter of five seconds. Then there is the phones now days that can do anything you need a phone to do. Look for something on the internet and get the answer in two or three seconds or faster. Super clear quality on pictures and videos. You can take notes, you can have music, see how long you sleep, you can set reminders, you can have 100’s of gigabits to save things.     


<h2>Week 3 and Self Portrait Reflection</h2>

In order to start this project, I sat and watched multiple youtube videos on how to use an html editor. At first it took a long time for me to understand how to do it but after so many videos I got the hang of it. On my first attempt, I followed a guy and did exactly as he did, of course, filling in the information i needed compared to his. The most difficult part of this project was learning how to add pictures. It took me about a good thirty minutes to find a video that explained it well. After my half an hour, it started to make more and more sense to me. Another difficult part was constantly remembering to close that brackets after I’m done with a line or section. Whenever something was incorrectly done, the next line would light up and the words would change from black to red. After I went back and closed all the brackets, it became much easier to finish. Also in the process of the pictures it was extremely annoying having to start an html folder then save all the images to the laptop, then to the folder, then naming the pictures so I didn’t get confused. Sitting there and rewriting the same exact line over and over and over again.One thing I wish I could’ve figured out is how to rotate pictures. For example, some of my pictures were taken vertical and downloaded and made themselves horizontally and I had no idea how to fix this, regardless of how many youtube videos I watched I couldn’t get it.Another thing I wish would’ve been explained or in a youtube video is how to create my url to my desire. Having my url already set and not matching my page outline just kind of threw it off for me. I chose the pictures that I did because, those are the people who mean the most to me or those are moments that I’ve been most proud of myself.  In the first picture, it was when i won PPR Silverskin Finalist, it’s a high football show where the news watches football games and records games and analyze players based on their performance. The big group picture is with me and my closest friends, it was the day PPR came in and announced me as the winner in front of my school. The picture with a girl, that’s my girlfriend of four months, she means the absolute world to me and I don’t know what I’d do without her. The last picture is me and my best friend Jevon, I’ve known him for about four and a half years ago. He knows more about me than anyone else. After reading What Hypertext Is I comprehended that a hyperlink is multi purpose, does sends a message to the source commanding an action that is needed to be done or ended. Hypertexts is basically another language and is a form of coding. 

#### Self Portrait
[hyper-text portait](jahmon.HTML/project.html)

<h3> Week 4 Reflection </h3> 
People often think that when they download an app, all of their information is withheld within the app. However, apps often do the complete opposite. Majority of the time, apps sell your data to companies, no name or phone number included but with an ID number linked to your information. They give you ads based on your location and things you previously searched up. Sometimes people download an app and give permission for their location to be seen or used. For example, Snapchat asks you when you download the app if you want your location to be enabled. 9/10 times people say yes, this is because when people are out they like to post where they are. Like when people go to Disneyland or Knotts Berry Farm you go on social media and find out. In 2017, one company tracked up to 200 million mobile devices in the United States, sometimes up to 14,000 times a day. In 2018, sales of location-targeted advertising reached an estimated $21 billion. When someone is being tracked, everywhere they go is being monitored and recorded. Including their workplace, and their home address, sometimes even their doctors or other appointments. For example, a nurse named Elise Lee, noticed that her device had been tracked to her workplace, and was concerned about her privacy and her patients privacy. She felt as if “... someone is following me, personally.” People of all different fields are being tracked even detectives. Kids nowadays are very unaware of what these apps are capable of doing with their information. Unknowingly kids give up all types of information as in their address, their friends address, their names, birthdays. Sometimes even adults give up their location unwillingly, some weather apps say they’re using your location to find the most accurate weather prediction. However, some companies have bought out weather apps and now sell peoples locations and information. Some people often find out about their location sharing, bring it up to the company, all the company really gets is maybe a little slap on the hand, as in bad press about the company that often gets forgotten within the next month or two. A majority of these tracking apps are either weather, maps, or traffic notifications. An app named GasBuddy, helps people find gas stations nearby in areas they are not so familiar with. However, this app indicates that data could also be shared to “analyze industry trends.” This app basically gives you a heads up that they might use your information. There are apps that give your options to use your location at all times, only while using the app or not at all. Google and Facebook both collect the data from their apps, but withhold from selling it. Instead they keep it for themselves to personalize their services. Smaller companies compete by selling data and analysis to financial institutions. This segment of the industry is small but is growing. It’s expected to reach about $250 million a year by 2020.

